Table A.

        Study                                                                 Scarcity IV Description
 Abeyta, Routledge,
 Kersten, & Cox          Participants viewed a slideshow that summarized a news article about either an economic recession or architecture.
 (2017), Study 2
 Bickel et al., 2016     Participants read an economic narrative in which they experienced a negative income shock (lost 100% of their income), a positive
 Replication             income shock (increased their income by 100%) or a neutral income shock (increased their income by 2%).

                         Participants assigned to the “poor” condition were limited to 84 guesses total (6 per round) in a Wheel of Fortune game. Participants
 Camerer et al. (2018)
                         assigned to the “rich condition were given 280 guesses total (20 per round).

                         Participants in the high economic insecurity condition were assigned to remember and write about a time when their financial
 Chou et al. (2016),
                         prospects were uncertain (i.e., when they were financially insecure). Participants in the low economic insecurity wrote about a time
 Study 3
                         when their financial prospects were certain (i.e., when they were financially secure.)

                         Tests a triple scarcity effect. First in the liquidity conditions, liquidity options were either present (participants imagined they were
                         recently paid) or absent (participants imagined they were broke). Next, in the frame conditions, participants in the loss frame imagined
 Cook & Sadeghein
                         they risked repossession of their automobile while participants in the gain frame imagined an upgrade. Finally, participants in the
 (2018), Study 3
                         lending options present condition were told they had other options to pay their bill besides a payday loan, while those in the lending
                         options absent condition were told a payday loan was their only option.
 Durante,
 Griskevicius,
                         Participants viewed a slideshow about the economy that either depicted an economic recession and or an economic upswing.
 Redden, & White
 (2015), Study 4
                         All participants first completed a self-rating task in which they indicated how much 10 neutral attributes described them. Participants
 Emery, Walsh, &         in the self-concept clarity (SCC) threat condition were then assigned to either generate two inconsistent self-aspects and write about
 Slotter (2015), Study   how they sometimes conflict with each other in the participants’ day-to-day life. Participants in the SCC confirmation condition were
 3                       assigned to generate two consistent self-aspects and write about how they complement each other in the P’s day-to-day life.
                         Participants in the control condition were assigned to write about their trip to get to the study.
 Fernbach, Kan, &
                       Participants were randomly assigned to one of three conditions in which they were told they received an unexpected bill in the mail
 Lynch (2015), Study
                       for either $100, $500, or $1,000.
 2
 Kristofferson,
                         All participants saw an advertisement for an iPhone 5 that was offered at a reduced price and were told there were only 3 (scarcity)
 McFerran, Morales, &
                         or 3,000+ (control) available at their local electronics store.
 Dahl, (2017), Study 5
Layous, Kurtz,         Participants who were assigned to the live this month (LTM) condition were told to live the next month like it was their last in their
Chancellor, &          college town for a while (manipulating time scarcity), and that they should try to appreciate and savor the activities they do while they
Lyubomirsky (2018)     do them. Participants who were assigned to the control condition were told to keep track of what they do over the course of the week
                       Participants were assigned to read a news article about college students’ consumption of luxury fashion items. Participants in the
Lee, Baumgartner, &
                       earned resources condition read that the students worked part time and saved money to make their purchases. Participants in the
Winterich (2018),
                       unearned resources condition read that the students receive money from their parents without working. Participants in the control
Study 4
                       condition did not read any mention of the source of resources.
Mani, Mullainathan,
                       Income was measured by dividing the participants’ self-reported household income by the square root of the size of their household,
Shafir, & Zhao
                       and then taking a median split of this value to yield a categorical variable.
(2013), Study 4

                       Participants assigned to the “scarcity” condition completed a writing task in which they wrote an essay about growing up with scarce
Mehta & Zhu (2016),
                       resources. Participants assigned to the “abundance” condition completed a writing task in which they wrote an essay about growing up
Study 2
                       with abundant resources. Participants assigned to the control condition did not complete any writing task.

                       Participants were assigned to either a near future or distant future condition. Participants assigned to the near future condition were
Monga, May, &          told that the upcoming study would start at 8:00am on a Saturday in 3 days (the study took place on a Wednesday). Participants
Bagchi (2017), Study   assigned to the distant future condition were told that the upcoming survey would start at 8:00am on a Saturday in 24 days.
4                      Participants were also assigned to either a money elicitation condition or time elicitation condition to determine their desired wage
                       rate.
Plantinga, Krijnen,
Zeelenberg, &
                       Participants self-reported their effective income, which measured in increments of $10,000 and centered for each increment.
Breugelmans (2019),
Study 3
                       Participants who were assigned to the scarcity condition were sequentially shown five resources (gasoline, sugar, water, wheat, and
Roux, Goldsmith, &
                       electricity) and asked to list three things three wouldn’t be able to do if those resources were unavailable. Participants who were
Bonezzi (2015),
                       assigned to the control condition were sequentially shown the same five resources and asked to list three things they could do with
Study 4
                       each resource.
Shah, Zhao,            Income was measured using a scale with $10k increments, ranging from below $10k to $150k and above. Values were coded as the
Mullainathan, Shafir   midpoint of the scale (except $150k). This value was divided by the square root of the household size. This new value was then split at
(2018), Study 3        the median and used as a measured categorical independent variable.
Shah, Shafir, &
                       Participants who were assigned to the poor scarcity condition were given 15 seconds per round to guess answers to a prompt in a
Mullainathan (2015),
                       Family Feud game, while those in the rich scarcity condition were given 50 seconds per round to guess.
Study 6
                       Participants assigned to the scarcity condition were asked to write about financial constraints in their lives. Participants assigned to the
                       control condition were asked to list 10 facts they knew to be true.
Tully, Hershfield &
Meyvis (2015),
Study 5
                      Participants were assigned to an abundant or scarce supply-level condition. All participants were told the researchers were studying
Zhu & Ratner          vegetable preferences and saw eight pieces of four types of vegetables: baby carrots, cherry tomatoes, broccoli florets, and cauliflower
(2015), Study 2       florets. Participants assigned to the scarce condition, saw the vegetables presented in large 32 oz. food containers. Participants
                      assigned to the abundance condition saw the vegetables presented in small 8 oz. food containers.
